Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about the nested scope.
All right, so we know all this process, we know the two step process where we have the compilation
and then we have the execution, but what if we have a function inside another function?
Now, the question that I want to answer here is, is that this function, this function called again
movie.
Is it accessible outside the scope of the other movie function, inside the global scope?
We know how this works because we have talked about it for almost 50 minutes during the three previous
lectures.
We know how code is executed.
We know that first we have completion, then we have execution.
But what about this?
This is because functions, they have a specific scope.
So this is one scope nested inside, another scope.
So how would this actually be executed?
What function declarations would like to do is they make their identifiers to their like in their in
their enclosing scope.
So any identifiers that are present inside, any function declaration, they belong to the scope of
that function.
We know that this VAR movie belongs to the scope.
Of this function, other movie, we know that, but what about this function because this var this is
a declaration, this is a formal declaration, this function is also a formal declaration.
What is the difference?
This is a very a formal variable declaration.
This is a formal function declaration.
Right.
So because this variable declaration doesn't have a scope, doesn't create a scope.
This function does create a scope.
What about this?
So when this function creates when this function creates a scope, we can call the function this nested
scope inside this bigger scope.
We can call it there.
So how do we know that?
So I'm what I'm going to do is I'm just going to grab the inclosing scope, which is the other movie
for this again movie.
And I'm going to call that and we can see what do we have?
We have our concept of like this, this constant the log actually runs because we have here movie and
then we have movie name.
OK, so this movie, you know what, I'm I'm very simplifying this execution.
We are mainly coming to here.
OK, so whenever we say concer log because console is not present inside this function, it is not it
has not been referenced inside this function, the console, because of this lexical nature of JavaScript,
it is going to go one level up to this.
But before going there, it should grab the parameter.
This function parameters value and the function parameter is value is supplied with this function argument,
this argument.
So this argument is going to be passed in here and then we are going to reference it inside the function.
So we know that this console log has one value and that is Dances with Wolves.
Now, this console log is going to go one level up.
And because the console doesn't have any reference here, we we did not create a valid reference for
the console here.
It is going to go one level up once more.
It is going to go one level up.
But before going one level up, because this log is in the source position, we are going to grab the
source of this log.
What is the source for this log?
We grab this.
And now what about this movie?
Because the movie is again another identifier.
So we are going to pass on the value American Psycho to this movie.
OK, so and then the console dialogue is going to come here to the global scope and it is going to be
executed.
Right.
And then we are going to get American Psycho and Dances with Wolves.
We we we get these because we call the function.
And now if I can comment about this function call, even though you might say, OK, the console log
is right here inside the global scope, why is it not printing?
The reason for that is because it is not inside the global scope, because now we are in the compilation
stage.
Remember the function call.
This is the executable code.
This is not the executable code.
One day the executable code runs, then the console log is going to travel to level up or two levels
successively.
All right.
Because this parentheses says execute this code.
Nothing else says execute this code, OK?
Only the parentheses set says execute this code.
Right and not.
And then we can see the American Psycho, which comes from here and Dances with Wolves, which comes
from here.
Now, the main question.
What can we access again, movie inside the global scope?
No, we cannot, because the scope of this function is enclosed within the other movie function.
The function again movie does not exist outside the scope of the other movie scope.
So if I were to consider log it, we can see that we end up with a reference center.
We cannot find the reference to this again movie.
And it doesn't say that The Revenant because it's a string.
We know where it is.
It's right here.
But what about this again movie?
So even when this is an error, this function is not going to execute, meaning we are not going to
see this inside the console.
And it says, again, movie is not defined.
There is no reference to it.
And it says on line 14 where it is.
So it is on line 14.
So we have an undefined and we have an undeclared.
This is what I want to talk about at the end of this lecture.
And because here we have undefined OK.
And we also have in JavaScript something that is called undeclared.
They might sound synonyms, but they're not.
According to the JavaScript language, undefined is where a variable is a variable exists.
But at the moment it doesn't have a value.
It might have had a value or it might never have had a value, but it exists.
But at the moment of execution, it doesn't have a value.
It does exist.
This variable exists, but it doesn't have a value.
That's why we cannot grob the value.
That's why we say it's undefined.
But what is undeclared undeclared is something that has never formally been declared in any scope that
we have access to.
We know what undeclared as we saw it in our previous lecture, and this is undefined, OK, this is
the difference between the two.
So this is going to be it for this lecture and this chapter.
In the next chapter, we are going to take the idea of this lexical scope and we are going to expand
it and we are going to talk Tocal advanced.
If you thought this was advanced, wait to see the next chapter.
In the next chapter, we are going to cover very, very major ideas and I'm not going to discuss them
here, but they are even more advanced than this.
So that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next chapter.